The plot I will be examining is from the second part of Exercise 3.  This portion of Exercise 3 asked us to plot the change in average generations before allele fixation with increasing allele frequency and a fixed population size.  My resulting graph shows a decrease in the average generations to fixation with increasing allele frequency.  This phenomenon makes sense biologically, as it shows that alleles that follow random inheritance in isolated populations become fixed more quickly when they are more frequent within the population.  With a larger prevalence of an allele with random inheritance, it will be more likely to have an equivalent or larger frequency in the following generation.  Over many generations, this high probability of increasing frequency results in a faster rate of fixation.

Changing the Wright-Fisher assumption of all individuals reproducing once per generation at the same time can affect the results of the model.  The Wright-Fisher model uses the allele frequency and population size of one generation in a population to produce an allele frequency for the following generation.  If individuals within this population are reproducing more than once per generation and/or at different times from one another, the allele frequencies will not change in a stepwise, once-per-generation manner.  Rather, they will fluctuate as the population progresses from one generation to the next.  This will prevent the population from strictly following the model.  This violation of the Wright-Fisher model is common in nature.  Many populations do not reproduce at exactly the same time, and individuals often reproduce more than once throughout the year.

A lack of selection is another required condition for a functional Wright-Fisher model.  If there is selection for a particular allele of a gene that researchers are looking to model with Wright-Fisher, allele frequencies will not change randomly across populations.  Rather, the alleles that offer selective advantages will become more prevalent over generations, while those that are neutral or disadvantageous will, in turn, become less prevalent.  These trends in allele frequency across generations will not match those produced by random changes in allele frequency, thus breaking from the Wright-Fisher model.  The violation is also common in nature.  Many genes have alleles that confer a selective advantage or disadvantage.  The allele frequencies for these genes in a specific population cannot be appropriately modeled by Wright-Fisher.